Landing_Page_Documentation.md, before:

# SchoolDream Landing Page Feature Documentation

## Overview

The Landing Page serves as the primary entry point for the SchoolDream platform, an AI-driven school management system designed to revolutionize educational outcomes through intelligent features such as personalized learning companions, predictive analytics, and dynamic stakeholder engagement. It provides a compelling introduction to the platform's capabilities, highlights key value propositions aligned with the SchoolDream blueprint, and facilitates seamless user onboarding through registration and login functionalities.

### Purpose
- **Primary Goal**: Attract and convert visitors into registered users by showcasing the platform's AI-enhanced benefits for schools, teachers, parents, and students.
- **Key Objectives**: Educate users on features like AI Learning Companion and Predictive Academic Wellness System; enable easy account creation and authentication; drive traffic to the main application.
- **Scope**: Static/marketing-focused page with dynamic elements for user interaction; fully responsive and accessible.

### Target Users
- **Schools/Administrators**: Seeking operational efficiency and data-driven insights.
- **Teachers**: Interested in AI-assisted teaching tools and workload reduction.
- **Parents**: Focused on real-time engagement and family learning support.
- **Students**: Aimed at personalized learning experiences (though primarily accessed via institutional login).

### Integration with SchoolDream Platform
- **Authentication Bridge**: Uses Supabase Auth to seamlessly transition users to the main dashboard upon login.
- **Data Flow**: Registration data feeds into core user management; landing page analytics inform marketing strategies.
- **AI Integration**: Highlights AI features; potential for real-time AI-generated content (e.g., personalized CTAs).
- **Dependencies**: Relies on Supabase for backend services; integrates with main app via shared auth and routing.

## Requirements

### Functional Requirements
- **Content Display**: Render hero section, feature highlights, testimonials, pricing overview, and contact forms.
- **User Interaction**: Provide registration and login forms with real-time validation.
- **Form Handling**: Submit data to Supabase; handle success/error states with user feedback.
- **Navigation**: Smooth scrolling to sections; responsive menu for mobile.
- **Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 AA compliance; keyboard navigation and screen reader support.
- **Internationalization**: Support for multiple languages (e.g., English, Spanish) using i18n libraries.

### Non-Functional Requirements
- **Performance**: Page load time < 3 seconds; Core Web Vitals scores > 90.
- **Scalability**: Handle 10,000+ concurrent users via CDN and caching.
- **Security**: End-to-end encryption; no data leakage in forms.
- **Usability**: Intuitive design; mobile-first approach with touch-friendly elements.
- **Maintainability**: Modular code structure for easy updates.

### User Stories
- **As a school administrator**, I want to see pricing plans so I can evaluate subscription options.
- **As a teacher**, I want to register quickly so I can explore AI teaching tools.
- **As a parent**, I want to view testimonials so I can trust the platform's impact.
- **As a student**, I want a simple login process so I can access personalized learning.

### Acceptance Criteria
- Registration form validates email/password; on success, redirects to email verification.
- Login form authenticates via Supabase; on failure, shows specific error (e.g., "Invalid credentials").
- Page renders correctly on devices from 320px to 1920px width.
- All interactive elements have ARIA labels and focus indicators.

### Dependencies
- Supabase project with Auth and Database enabled.
- React app with TypeScript configured.
- Access to SchoolDream branding assets (logos, colors).

## Frontend Implementation

### Technology Stack
- **Framework**: React 18+ with TypeScript for type-safe component development.
- **UI Library**: Material-UI (MUI) v5 for consistent, accessible components.
- **State Management**: Redux Toolkit for global state (e.g., auth status, form data).
- **Routing**: React Router v6 for client-side navigation.
- **Build Tool**: Vite for fast development and optimized builds.
- **Additional Libraries**: Axios for API calls; React Hook Form for form management; Framer Motion for animations.

### UI/UX Designs
- **Layout Structure**:
  - **Header/Navbar**: Logo, navigation links (Features, Pricing, Contact), login/register buttons; collapsible for mobile.
  - **Hero Section**: Full-width banner with headline ("Transform Education with AI"), subtext, primary CTA ("Get Started"), background image/video.
  - **Features Section**: Grid of 6 cards highlighting AI Learning Companion, Predictive Analytics, etc., with icons and descriptions.
  - **Testimonials Section**: Carousel of user quotes with photos.
  - **Pricing Section**: Tiered plans (Essential, Professional, Enterprise) with feature comparisons.
  - **Registration/Login Forms**: Modal dialogs or dedicated sections with fields for email, password, role selection.
  - **Footer**: Links to terms/privacy, social media, newsletter signup.
- **Design Principles**: Clean, modern aesthetic with SchoolDream blue/green palette; emphasizes trust and innovation; uses whitespace for readability.

### Components
- **HeroSection.tsx**: Displays dynamic content; includes call-to-action button.
- **FeatureCard.tsx**: Reusable card for feature highlights.
- **RegistrationForm.tsx**: Form with validation; integrates with Supabase Auth.
- **LoginForm.tsx**: Similar to registration; includes "Forgot Password" link.
- **TestimonialCarousel.tsx**: Auto-playing carousel with user testimonials.
- **PricingTable.tsx**: Displays plans with interactive selection.

### State Management
- **Redux Slices**: Auth slice for user state; Form slice for input handling.
- **Local State**: useState for component-specific data (e.g., form errors).

### Routing
- **Routes**: / (landing), /register, /login; protected routes redirect to main app.
- **Navigation Guards**: Check auth status to show/hide elements.

### Responsive Design Considerations
- **Breakpoints**: xs (0-600px), sm (600-900px), md (900-1200px), lg (1200px+).
- **Mobile Optimizations**: Touch targets > 44px; swipe gestures for carousels.
- **Tablet/Desktop**: Multi-column layouts; hover effects.

### Code Example: Registration Form Component
```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { useForm } from 'react-hook-form';
import { Button, TextField, Select, MenuItem } from '@mui/material';
import { supabase } from '../utils/supabaseClient';

interface FormData {
  email: string;
  password: string;
  role: 'student' | 'teacher' | 'parent' | 'admin';
}

const RegistrationForm: React.FC = () => {
  const { register, handleSubmit, formState: { errors } } = useForm<FormData>();

  const onSubmit = async (data: FormData) => {
    const { error } = await supabase.auth.signUp({
      email: data.email,
      password: data.password,
      options: {
        data: { role: data.role }
      }
    });
    if (error) {
      console.error('Registration error:', error.message);
    } else {
      // Handle success (e.g., show verification message)
    }
  };

  return (
    <form onSubmit={handleSubmit(onSubmit)}>
      <TextField
        {...register('email', { required: 'Email is required' })}
        label="Email"
        error={!!errors.email}
        helperText={errors.email?.message}
      />
      <TextField
        {...register('password', { required: 'Password is required', minLength: 6 })}
        label="Password"
        type="password"
        error={!!errors.password}
        helperText={errors.password?.message}
      />
      <Select {...register('role')} defaultValue="student">
        <MenuItem value="student">Student</MenuItem>
        <MenuItem value="teacher">Teacher</MenuItem>
        <MenuItem value="parent">Parent</MenuItem>
        <MenuItem value="admin">Admin</MenuItem>
      </Select>
      <Button type="submit" variant="contained">Register</Button>
    </form>
  );
};

export default RegistrationForm;
```

## Backend Implementation

### Technology Stack
- **Runtime**: Node.js 18+ with TypeScript for server-side logic.
- **Backend Service**: Supabase for database, authentication, and real-time features.
- **Framework**: Express.js (optional for custom endpoints) or Supabase Edge Functions for serverless logic.
- **Authentication**: Supabase Auth for user management.
- **Database**: Supabase PostgreSQL with real-time subscriptions.

### Server-Side Logic
- **Auth Handling**: Use Supabase client for sign-up/sign-in; custom logic for role assignment.
- **Data Processing**: Validate and sanitize form data; trigger email confirmations.
- **Real-Time Updates**: Subscribe to auth changes for dynamic UI updates.
- **Middleware**: CORS for cross-origin requests; rate limiting via Supabase policies.

### API Endpoints
- **Supabase Auth Endpoints**: /auth/v1/signup, /auth/v1/signin (handled via client SDK).
- **Custom Endpoints** (if using Express): POST /api/contact for newsletter signup.

### Database Interactions
- **Queries**: Use Supabase client for inserting user profiles; real-time listeners for auth state.
- **Security**: Row Level Security (RLS) policies to restrict data access.

### Authentication and Authorization
- **Supabase Auth**: Handles JWT tokens, password resets, and MFA.
- **Role-Based Access**: Custom claims for user roles; restrict landing page features based on auth status.

### Security Measures
- **Encryption**: Supabase handles TLS 1.3 and data encryption.
- **Input Validation**: Server-side checks via Supabase functions.
- **Audit Logging**: Supabase logs auth events.

### Code Example: Supabase Auth Integration
```typescript
import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js';

const supabase = createClient(process.env.SUPABASE_URL!, process.env.SUPABASE_ANON_KEY!);

export const signUpUser = async (email: string, password: string, role: string) => {
  const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signUp({
    email,
    password,
    options: {
      data: { role }
    }
  });
  if (error) throw error;
  return data;
};
```

## Database Schema

### Table Structures
- **auth.users** (Supabase built-in): id, email, encrypted_password, created_at.
- **profiles** (custom table):
  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE profiles (
    id UUID REFERENCES auth.users(id) PRIMARY KEY,
    role TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (role IN ('student', 'teacher', 'parent', 'admin')),
    full_name TEXT,
    created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW()
  );
  ```
- **newsletter_signups** (for contact form):
  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE newsletter_signups (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    email TEXT UNIQUE NOT NULL,
    subscribed_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW()
  );
  ```

### Relationships
- Profiles linked to auth.users via foreign key.
- No complex relationships; simple extension of auth data.

### Queries
- **Insert Profile**: `INSERT INTO profiles (id, role) VALUES ($1, $2)`.
- **Fetch User**: `SELECT * FROM profiles WHERE id = $1`.

## API Design

### Endpoints
- **Supabase Auth APIs**: RESTful endpoints for signup/signin/token refresh.
- **Custom API** (via Supabase Functions):
  - POST /functions/v1/contact: Handle newsletter signup.
    - Request: `{ "email": "string" }`
    - Response: `{ "success": true }` or `{ "error": "message" }`

### Request/Response Formats
- **JSON Standard**: All requests/responses in JSON.
- **Headers**: Authorization: Bearer <token> for protected routes.

### Error Handling
- **Status Codes**: 200 (success), 400 (bad request), 401 (unauthorized), 500 (server error).
- **Error Format**: `{ "error": { "message": "string", "code": "string" } }`

### Integration with Supabase
- **Real-Time**: Use Supabase subscriptions for live updates (e.g., auth state changes).
- **Third-Party**: Potential integration with email services via Supabase Functions.

## Testing Strategy

### Unit Tests
- **Tools**: Jest with React Testing Library for components.
- **Coverage**: Test form validations, state updates; e.g., `test('RegistrationForm submits data', () => { ... })`.

### Integration Tests
- **Tools**: Jest with Supertest for API mocks.
- **Scenarios**: Test auth flows with Supabase mock.

### End-to-End Tests
- **Tools**: Cypress or Playwright.
- **Flows**: User registration to email verification; login and redirect.

### Tools/Frameworks
- Jest for unit/integration; Cypress for E2E; Supertest for API testing.

## Deployment and DevOps

### CI/CD Pipelines
- **GitHub Actions**: Automate builds, tests, and deployments on push to main.
- **Steps**: Lint, test, build, deploy to Vercel/Supabase.

### Environment Configurations
- **Dev/Staging/Prod**: Separate Supabase projects; env vars for API keys.
- **Secrets Management**: GitHub Secrets for sensitive data.

### Scalability Considerations
- **CDN**: Vercel/Netlify for global distribution.
- **Auto-Scaling**: Supabase handles backend scaling.

### Monitoring
- **Tools**: Vercel Analytics; Supabase Dashboard for metrics.
- **Logs**: Centralized logging for errors and performance.

## Security Considerations

### Data Protection
- **Encryption**: Supabase encrypts data at rest/transit.
- **Compliance**: GDPR/CCPA for user data; FERPA for educational info.
- **Best Practices**: No sensitive data in client; secure token storage.

### Access Control
- **RLS Policies**: Restrict profile access to owners.
- **Rate Limiting**: Supabase built-in limits.

### Vulnerabilities
- **Mitigation**: Regular dependency updates; OWASP guidelines.

## Performance Optimization

### Frontend
- **Lazy Loading**: React.lazy for components; image optimization.
- **Caching**: Browser caching for static assets; Redux for state.

### Backend
- **Query Optimization**: Indexed queries in Supabase.
- **Caching**: Supabase edge caching for frequent data.

### General
- **Bundle Splitting**: Vite chunks for faster loads.
- **Monitoring**: Track Core Web Vitals.

## Edge Cases and Error Handling

### Common Issues
- **Network Failures**: Retry with exponential backoff; offline mode.
- **Invalid Inputs**: Client/server validation; user-friendly messages.
- **Auth Errors**: Handle expired tokens; redirect to login.

### Fallback Mechanisms
- **Form Failures**: Save draft locally; retry on reconnect.
- **API Errors**: Graceful degradation; show generic error page.

### User Feedback
- **Loading States**: Spinners during submissions.
- **Notifications**: Toast messages for success/errors.

## Integration Points

### With Other Modules
- **Main App**: Shared auth; redirect post-login.
- **AI Features**: API calls to display dynamic content.
- **Third-Party**: Email service (SendGrid) for confirmations.

### Dependencies
- **Internal**: Core user management module.
- **External**: Supabase ecosystem.

## Code Examples

See examples in Frontend and Backend sections above.

## Dependencies and Libraries

- **Frontend**: react, typescript, @mui/material, reduxjs/toolkit, react-router-dom, axios, react-hook-form, framer-motion, i18next.
- **Backend**: @supabase/supabase-js, express (if used), typescript.
- **Dev Tools**: jest, @testing-library/react, cypress, eslint, prettier.

## Future Enhancements

- **Personalization**: AI-driven CTAs based on user behavior.
- **A/B Testing**: Test different layouts for conversion optimization.
- **Multi-Tenant**: Support for school-specific branding.
- **Advanced Analytics**: Integrate with Google Analytics for detailed insights.
- **Scalability**: Add micro-frontends for larger features.

This documentation is self-contained and enables independent development of the Landing Page feature.

Commit message:

Wanted to have Production Ready Documents for Coding

Landing_Page_Documentation.md, after:

# SchoolDream Landing Page Feature Documentation

## Overview

The Landing Page serves as the primary entry point for the SchoolDream platform, an AI-driven school management system designed to revolutionize educational outcomes through intelligent features such as personalized learning companions, predictive analytics, and dynamic stakeholder engagement. It provides a compelling introduction to the platform's capabilities, highlights key value propositions aligned with the SchoolDream blueprint, and facilitates seamless user onboarding through registration and login functionalities.

### Purpose
- **Primary Goal**: Attract and convert visitors into registered users by showcasing the platform's AI-enhanced benefits for schools, teachers, parents, and students.
- **Key Objectives**: Educate users on features like AI Learning Companion and Predictive Academic Wellness System; enable easy account creation and authentication; drive traffic to the main application.
- **Scope**: Static/marketing-focused page with dynamic elements for user interaction; fully responsive and accessible.

### Target Users
- **Schools/Administrators**: Seeking operational efficiency and data-driven insights.
- **Teachers**: Interested in AI-assisted teaching tools and workload reduction.
- **Parents**: Focused on real-time engagement and family learning support.
- **Students**: Aimed at personalized learning experiences (though primarily accessed via institutional login).

### Integration with SchoolDream Platform
- **Authentication Bridge**: Uses Supabase Auth to seamlessly transition users to the main dashboard upon login.
- **Data Flow**: Registration data feeds into core user management; landing page analytics inform marketing strategies.
- **AI Integration**: Highlights AI features; potential for real-time AI-generated content (e.g., personalized CTAs).
- **Dependencies**: Relies on Supabase for backend services; integrates with main app via shared auth and routing.

## Requirements

### Functional Requirements
- **Content Display**: Render hero section, feature highlights, testimonials, pricing overview, and contact forms.
- **User Interaction**: Provide registration and login forms with real-time validation.
- **Form Handling**: Submit data to Supabase; handle success/error states with user feedback.
- **Navigation**: Smooth scrolling to sections; responsive menu for mobile.
- **Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 AA compliance; keyboard navigation and screen reader support.
- **Internationalization**: Support for multiple languages (e.g., English, Spanish) using i18n libraries.

### Non-Functional Requirements
- **Performance**: Page load time < 3 seconds; Core Web Vitals scores > 90.
- **Scalability**: Handle 10,000+ concurrent users via CDN and caching.
- **Security**: End-to-end encryption; no data leakage in forms.
- **Usability**: Intuitive design; mobile-first approach with touch-friendly elements.
- **Maintainability**: Modular code structure for easy updates.

### User Stories
- **As a school administrator**, I want to see pricing plans so I can evaluate subscription options.
- **As a teacher**, I want to register quickly so I can explore AI teaching tools.
- **As a parent**, I want to view testimonials so I can trust the platform's impact.
- **As a student**, I want a simple login process so I can access personalized learning.

### Acceptance Criteria
- Registration form validates email/password; on success, redirects to email verification.
- Login form authenticates via Supabase; on failure, shows specific error (e.g., "Invalid credentials").
- Page renders correctly on devices from 320px to 1920px width.
- All interactive elements have ARIA labels and focus indicators.

### Dependencies
- Supabase project with Auth and Database enabled.
- React app with TypeScript configured.
- Access to SchoolDream branding assets (logos, colors).

## Frontend Implementation

### Technology Stack
- **Framework**: React 18+ with TypeScript for type-safe component development.
- **UI Library**: Material-UI (MUI) v5 for consistent, accessible components.
- **State Management**: Redux Toolkit for global state (e.g., auth status, form data).
- **Routing**: React Router v6 for client-side navigation.
- **Build Tool**: Vite for fast development and optimized builds.
- **Additional Libraries**: Axios for API calls; React Hook Form for form management; Framer Motion for animations.

### UI/UX Designs
- **Layout Structure**:
  - **Header/Navbar**: Logo, navigation links (Features, Pricing, Contact), login/register buttons; collapsible for mobile.
  - **Hero Section**: Full-width banner with headline ("Transform Education with AI"), subtext, primary CTA ("Get Started"), background image/video.
  - **Features Section**: Grid of 6 cards highlighting AI Learning Companion, Predictive Analytics, etc., with icons and descriptions.
  - **Testimonials Section**: Carousel of user quotes with photos.
  - **Pricing Section**: Tiered plans (Essential, Professional, Enterprise) with feature comparisons.
  - **Registration/Login Forms**: Modal dialogs or dedicated sections with fields for email, password, role selection.
  - **Footer**: Links to terms/privacy, social media, newsletter signup.
- **Design Principles**: Clean, modern aesthetic with SchoolDream blue/green palette; emphasizes trust and innovation; uses whitespace for readability.

### Components
- **HeroSection.tsx**: Displays dynamic content; includes call-to-action button.
- **FeatureCard.tsx**: Reusable card for feature highlights.
- **RegistrationForm.tsx**: Form with validation; integrates with Supabase Auth.
- **LoginForm.tsx**: Similar to registration; includes "Forgot Password" link.
- **TestimonialCarousel.tsx**: Auto-playing carousel with user testimonials.
- **PricingTable.tsx**: Displays plans with interactive selection.

### State Management
- **Redux Slices**: Auth slice for user state; Form slice for input handling.
- **Local State**: useState for component-specific data (e.g., form errors).

### Routing
- **Routes**: / (landing), /register, /login; protected routes redirect to main app.
- **Navigation Guards**: Check auth status to show/hide elements.

### Responsive Design Considerations
- **Breakpoints**: xs (0-600px), sm (600-900px), md (900-1200px), lg (1200px+).
- **Mobile Optimizations**: Touch targets > 44px; swipe gestures for carousels.
- **Tablet/Desktop**: Multi-column layouts; hover effects.

### Code Example: Registration Form Component
```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { useForm } from 'react-hook-form';
import { Button, TextField, Select, MenuItem } from '@mui/material';
import { supabase } from '../utils/supabaseClient';

interface FormData {
  email: string;
  password: string;
  role: 'student' | 'teacher' | 'parent' | 'admin';
}

const RegistrationForm: React.FC = () => {
  const { register, handleSubmit, formState: { errors } } = useForm<FormData>();

  const onSubmit = async (data: FormData) => {
    const { error } = await supabase.auth.signUp({
      email: data.email,
      password: data.password,
      options: {
        data: { role: data.role }
      }
    });
    if (error) {
      console.error('Registration error:', error.message);
    } else {
      // Handle success (e.g., show verification message)
    }
  };

  return (
    <form onSubmit={handleSubmit(onSubmit)}>
      <TextField
        {...register('email', { required: 'Email is required' })}
        label="Email"
        error={!!errors.email}
        helperText={errors.email?.message}
      />
      <TextField
        {...register('password', { required: 'Password is required', minLength: 6 })}
        label="Password"
        type="password"
        error={!!errors.password}
        helperText={errors.password?.message}
      />
      <Select {...register('role')} defaultValue="student">
        <MenuItem value="student">Student</MenuItem>
        <MenuItem value="teacher">Teacher</MenuItem>
        <MenuItem value="parent">Parent</MenuItem>
        <MenuItem value="admin">Admin</MenuItem>
      </Select>
      <Button type="submit" variant="contained">Register</Button>
    </form>
  );
};

export default RegistrationForm;
```

## Backend Implementation

### Technology Stack
- **Runtime**: Node.js 18+ with TypeScript for server-side logic.
- **Backend Service**: Supabase for database, authentication, and real-time features.
- **Framework**: Express.js (optional for custom endpoints) or Supabase Edge Functions for serverless logic.
- **Authentication**: Supabase Auth for user management.
- **Database**: Supabase PostgreSQL with real-time subscriptions.

### Server-Side Logic
- **Auth Handling**: Use Supabase client for sign-up/sign-in; custom logic for role assignment.
- **Data Processing**: Validate and sanitize form data; trigger email confirmations.
- **Real-Time Updates**: Subscribe to auth changes for dynamic UI updates.
- **Middleware**: CORS for cross-origin requests; rate limiting via Supabase policies.

### API Endpoints
- **Supabase Auth Endpoints**: /auth/v1/signup, /auth/v1/signin (handled via client SDK).
- **Custom Endpoints** (if using Express): POST /api/contact for newsletter signup.

### Database Interactions
- **Queries**: Use Supabase client for inserting user profiles; real-time listeners for auth state.
- **Security**: Row Level Security (RLS) policies to restrict data access.

### Authentication and Authorization
- **Supabase Auth**: Handles JWT tokens, password resets, and MFA.
- **Role-Based Access**: Custom claims for user roles; restrict landing page features based on auth status.

### Security Measures
- **Encryption**: Supabase handles TLS 1.3 and data encryption.
- **Input Validation**: Server-side checks via Supabase functions.
- **Audit Logging**: Supabase logs auth events.

### Code Example: Supabase Auth Integration
```typescript
import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js';

const supabase = createClient(process.env.SUPABASE_URL!, process.env.SUPABASE_ANON_KEY!);

export const signUpUser = async (email: string, password: string, role: string) => {
  const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signUp({
    email,
    password,
    options: {
      data: { role }
    }
  });
  if (error) throw error;
  return data;
};
```

## Database Schema

### Table Structures
- **auth.users** (Supabase built-in): id, email, encrypted_password, created_at.
- **profiles** (custom table):
  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE profiles (
    id UUID REFERENCES auth.users(id) PRIMARY KEY,
    role TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (role IN ('student', 'teacher', 'parent', 'admin')),
    full_name TEXT,
    created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW()
  );
  ```
- **newsletter_signups** (for contact form):
  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE newsletter_signups (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    email TEXT UNIQUE NOT NULL,
    subscribed_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW()
  );
  ```

### Relationships
- Profiles linked to auth.users via foreign key.
- No complex relationships; simple extension of auth data.

### Queries
- **Insert Profile**: `INSERT INTO profiles (id, role) VALUES ($1, $2)`.
- **Fetch User**: `SELECT * FROM profiles WHERE id = $1`.

## API Design

### Endpoints
- **Supabase Auth APIs**: RESTful endpoints for signup/signin/token refresh.
- **Custom API** (via Supabase Functions):
  - POST /functions/v1/contact: Handle newsletter signup.
    - Request: `{ "email": "string" }`
    - Response: `{ "success": true }` or `{ "error": "message" }`

### Request/Response Formats
- **JSON Standard**: All requests/responses in JSON.
- **Headers**: Authorization: Bearer <token> for protected routes.

### Error Handling
- **Status Codes**: 200 (success), 400 (bad request), 401 (unauthorized), 500 (server error).
- **Error Format**: `{ "error": { "message": "string", "code": "string" } }`

### Integration with Supabase
- **Real-Time**: Use Supabase subscriptions for live updates (e.g., auth state changes).
- **Third-Party**: Potential integration with email services via Supabase Functions.

## Testing Strategy

### Unit Tests
- **Tools**: Jest with React Testing Library for components.
- **Coverage**: Test form validations, state updates; e.g., `test('RegistrationForm submits data', () => { ... })`.

### Integration Tests
- **Tools**: Jest with Supertest for API mocks.
- **Scenarios**: Test auth flows with Supabase mock.

### End-to-End Tests
- **Tools**: Cypress or Playwright.
- **Flows**: User registration to email verification; login and redirect.

### Tools/Frameworks
- Jest for unit/integration; Cypress for E2E; Supertest for API testing.

## Deployment and DevOps

### CI/CD Pipelines
- **GitHub Actions**: Automate builds, tests, and deployments on push to main.
- **Steps**: Lint, test, build, deploy to Vercel/Supabase.

### Environment Configurations
- **Production**: Full Supabase deployment with real-time data, monitoring, and auto-scaling.
- **Pre-Production**: Environment for final validation with production-like data.
- **Secrets Management**: Secure handling of API keys and sensitive data.

### Scalability Considerations
- **CDN**: Vercel/Netlify for global distribution.
- **Auto-Scaling**: Supabase handles backend scaling.

### Monitoring
- **Tools**: Vercel Analytics; Supabase Dashboard for metrics.
- **Logs**: Centralized logging for errors and performance.

## Security Considerations

### Data Protection
- **Encryption**: Supabase encrypts data at rest/transit.
- **Compliance**: GDPR/CCPA for user data; FERPA for educational info.
- **Best Practices**: No sensitive data in client; secure token storage.

### Access Control
- **RLS Policies**: Restrict profile access to owners.
- **Rate Limiting**: Supabase built-in limits.

### Vulnerabilities
- **Mitigation**: Regular dependency updates; OWASP guidelines.

## Performance Optimization

### Frontend
- **Lazy Loading**: React.lazy for components; image optimization.
- **Caching**: Browser caching for static assets; Redux for state.

### Backend
- **Query Optimization**: Indexed queries in Supabase.
- **Caching**: Supabase edge caching for frequent data.

### General
- **Bundle Splitting**: Vite chunks for faster loads.
- **Monitoring**: Track Core Web Vitals.

## Edge Cases and Error Handling

### Common Issues
- **Network Failures**: Retry with exponential backoff; offline mode.
- **Invalid Inputs**: Client/server validation; user-friendly messages.
- **Auth Errors**: Handle expired tokens; redirect to login.

### Fallback Mechanisms
- **Form Failures**: Save draft locally; retry on reconnect.
- **API Errors**: Graceful degradation; show generic error page.

### User Feedback
- **Loading States**: Spinners during submissions.
- **Notifications**: Toast messages for success/errors.

## Integration Points

### With Other Modules
- **Main App**: Shared auth; redirect post-login.
- **AI Features**: API calls to display dynamic content.
- **Third-Party**: Email service (SendGrid) for confirmations.

### Dependencies
- **Internal**: Core user management module.
- **External**: Supabase ecosystem.

## Code Examples

See examples in Frontend and Backend sections above.

## Dependencies and Libraries

- **Frontend**: react, typescript, @mui/material, reduxjs/toolkit, react-router-dom, axios, react-hook-form, framer-motion, i18next.
- **Backend**: @supabase/supabase-js, express (if used), typescript.
- **Dev Tools**: jest, @testing-library/react, cypress, eslint, prettier.

## Future Enhancements

- **Personalization**: AI-driven CTAs based on user behavior.
- **A/B Testing**: Test different layouts for conversion optimization.
- **Multi-Tenant**: Support for school-specific branding.
- **Advanced Analytics**: Integrate with Google Analytics for detailed insights.
- **Scalability**: Add micro-frontends for larger features.

This documentation is self-contained and enables independent development of the Landing Page feature.
